So, we're going to now
get some video involved,
and here begins the fun and
the road to selfie magic.
So we also have a method on the context
object that allows us to draw an image and
we can then pass in
a few different things.
So let's go see what we
pass in to the draw image,
CanvasRenderingContext 2D,
draw image method.
Another very long page,
okay with some hippos on it, that's fine.
And yeah, there's a whole bunch of
overloads for this method signature, so
there's all kinds of
things we can pass in.
We're just gonna look at this
first one to get us started.
We will pass in an image element to
that we wanna draw onto the Canvas and
this could be all kinds
of image g type things.
We could give it an image,
an image element, we could give it a SVG,
we could give it a video
just what we're gonna do.
We could give it bitmaps,
we can do all kinds of stuff.
But basically we give it
something that the browser knows
how to display as an image on the screen,
and then we give it.
Essentially, this is now telling us
about all these fancy things, but
the d stands for
sort of destination x-coordinate.
So what's the top-left corner?
Where is that gonna go in
the destination canvas?
And the y coordinate is, well, these
two together are the top left corner,
you feel me?
So the idea then is that we can also do
stuff, if we want to only draw a subset of
the image or only draw it to a certain
width from the original image.
There's all kinds of different
settings we can do, but
right now we're just
gonna draw a whole image.
So we're gonna use this easy,
simplest overload here and
you can read the whole rest of
this long page with hippos later.
Okay, so how are we gonna do that?
So yeah, if we draw, if we call drawImage
with one of these imagey type objects,
imagey type elements,
Canvas will figure it out for us.
Now, anybody know what's
gonna happen when I do this?
>> It doesn't know what video is.
>> Video is not defined.
You know what?
You don't even need to meet and run it,
we can believe that
this is not gonna work.
Okay, all right, and
we scroll down in the vite logs.
So vite has very helpfully been telling
me each time it reloads the page,
like index changed, source canvas changed,
source canvas changed twice.
Something messed up because you
don't know how to write a path but
all of these things vite is sort of
helpfully telling us as it goes.
So it's constantly running,
watching for our changes.
Okay, so what if we get a video element?
How's that sound?
Should we do that?
Okay, so, and this is where, again,
it starts to become a choose your own
adventure of like, how does it
make sense to organize our code?
So maybe I want to have,
this is a file that kind of,
draw some JavaScript logos,
which isn't necessarily
what I ultimately wanna do.
So maybe I want to actually
start working towards my end
goal of having a camera that
we can then draw data from.
So maybe we want to put this
in a file called, camera or
video, or selfie, JS, whatever we want.
And does everything need to start
with a C in our source directory?
No, it does not,
this is just weird coincidence.
But okay, this was an example of some
of the things we can do with Canvas.
Now we're gonna try to do
the video thing that we wanna do.
So, that means I'm gonna
have to go back and
change my index.html, aha,
remembered this time.
So once I do that, no more JS logo
because nothing's happening in camera.js,
but so we can now start
grabbing some videos stuff.
How's that sound?
Okay, so let's go back up.
So one thing we could do is add
a video element to our page,
that's not the only way
we could play this.
We could also, for example,
create a video element, I don't know.
And does this need to be on
the top level of this module?
Not necessarily, could be in,
let's say a handy dandy,
like get video function, for example and
I can call this, my goodness function,
okay, get video, I'll satisfy syntax.
Okay [LAUGH] move all this up,
option up to do all of that.
No, I'm gonna have to await
some stuff in this function,
one of the other things I'm gonna have
to do is actually get the user media.
So I'm gonna want
an asynchronous function here.
Cool?
Now, what's gonna happen
when I run [LAUGH] This?
Anybody see any issues?
What's AVStream?
>> What's AVStream?
Well, I don't know.
Did I save it, no I did not,
okay, no, yes I did, all right.
No, actually this didn't do anything
because this isn't a function and
I never called it.
So, [LAUGH] all right, so
if I do a wait, which, by the way,
I can only do in a JavaScript module.
So only in the type module
do I get top-level await,
another fun little nugget
[LAUGH] of modules.
So I can do await, getVideo, and
maybe I capture that value as,
a video, for example, and semicolons
is a debate we can have another time.
All right, so now I get the expected
error somewhere, please move, okay,
that I don't have an AVI stream.
What are you talking about?
So let's make sure we
grab that user media,
like we said we were gonna
do going further back.
Okay, so we've figured out that we
want to use this navigator thing.
And that this is another reason why
this getvideo is gonna have to be an AY
function because this is an asynchronous
operation, getting the user media.
And you know what I'm
gonna do at this point
is actually just stop doing
the main js stuff for
now, just so we can focus.
Okay, still an error, here we are.
Okay, so now I am basically
just pasting this code in,
letting VS Code format it for me.
We actually don't need the audio if
we just want to take a selfie, so
let's not even worry about that.
Let's only ask for the minimum permissions
that we need and not be like so
many projects out there that just want
access to basically everything your
computer can do.
So let's just restrict it to
the minimum viable permissions,
which is gonna be video,
And, something happened,
a little box popped up being like
allow this website to use your camera.
Well, I don't know, maybe I'll allow it,
okay, now we have a new book.
A new error, which is that video is null
because I never put a video
element in my HTML.
So when I tried to select for
this video element, no dice.
So what if I do like
create element instead and
make one programmatically with the
phenomenal cosmic powers of my dumb API.
Let's see if that is more helpful,okay.
And you you'll notice that, like, at this
point,since vite is kind of automatically
updating what's happening in the page
here, you don't have to reapprove.
But if I were to,
let's say open this again in a new tab,
every different run of this
script in the client will be
asking the user for these permissions.
So unless I, as the user, click that
remember, where the browser is just
gonna stop asking me this,
every different user that sees this and
even two different tabs in my device will
be able to make different decisions.
So, question, what do you think
happens if I don't allow it?
Let's find out,
[LAUGH] Okay, so if I block,
heck no, I don't want local host
to have access to my camera.
We get every an exception on this
getuser media function call,
that says,
nope you do not have permission,
you tried to get that user media
the user did not want you to or
the platform or
the browser something didn't want you to.
And so that's the kind of thing that we
would probably in our app want to handle,
let's say with a try catch,
maybe some, like, please,
please, please give me permission module,
no, [LAUGH].
But so just keep in mind that this will
error if it's not able to get that video
because of like a permissions problem,
okay.
And just perhaps useful for
development is you can always kind of,
in your different browsers,
there'll be different ways to sort of
reset your permissions for a given site.
Anyway, okay, so back to our this one,
where we have a whole beautiful
page of nothing happening,
amazing, let's go fix that,
shall we [LAUGH]?
Okay, so first of all,
what we said before is that we would all
feel a lot more comfortable if, instead
of main js injecting this massive string
template into the inner HTML of our app.
We just had this in our HTML, so let's
just go ahead and do that for ourselves.
And now we can go to index and we're gonna
have to make some changes to this but
okay, fine, we can leave this outer div.
Now there's some things that
are probably not gonna work here,
for example JavaScript's,
template literal $curlies.
We're not in JavaScript anymore, where
we were inside of a template literal.
So, what we can do,
though, thanks to vite,
is in this HTML file I can reference
things that are public assets or
other kind of recognized
assets that it'll capture for
us if we're importing them
in our modules and things.
For now, I don't know,
let's just pick one of these logos,
let's go with the V logo, okay?
So since vites's logo is
in our public directory,
that means it's just a statically
served file from our server at root.
So the public kinda goes away, that's
just for our organizational purposes.
So what I'll do is, I'll just,
let's forget the JavaScript logo for now,
since we all know that
that's what's happening.
And what we can do is just use source,
vites.svg,
and is there anything
else that won't work?
>> Do you really want
the dot in front of that?
>> Good question,
let's find out, it worked.
I'm not getting the styles though because
those were being imported in my main.
So why don't we go ahead and bring
back main and we could either we could
choose to import the Vite logo in here or
whatever but why don't we blow away this,
counter related code and
just import our style for now.
And then in my index, I wanna go back and
re-uncomment this name JS.
Right now I'm loading two
different modules, which may or
may not be what we want, so,
we can look at that in a second.
But at least now I've got some
fancy styles happening and
appearances are half the battle, right?
And okay, my counter button is
quite sad because I deleted
all the code that filled it
in with useful stuff, but
that's okay because we're not super
interested in a counter button.
We're perhaps more interested in, let's
say, Take Selfie button, for example.
So we're just assuming success and being
the button we want to see in the world,
and you know what,
I'm gonna do this for fun, [LAUGH].
So now we're starting to get towards our
selfie app, where it's gonna say hello,
you [LAUGH] and eventually, hopefully
we'll make this button do someday.